MEETING JESUS
COMPASSIONATE FAITH
February 19, 2023
Luke 5:17-26

If you have your Bible or your Bible app, go ahead and turn to Luke 5.

We are continuing in our sermon series “The Son of God.”  For all of 2022 we will be preaching and teaching about life-change from the Gospel of Luke.  If you did not bring a Bible with you today, you are invited to use one of the Bibles located underneath the seats in front of you and turn to page 1023. As always, if you do not have a Bible that you can read or understand easily, please take a Bible home with you. It is our gift to you.  

If you are joining us through our podcast or online, thank you! I hope that whatever day you are joining us, God is blessing you with hope. I invite you to follow along with the sermon using the YouVersion Bible App – you can get all of our life notes through that app.

As always, I am glad to be with our Parker Campus on the screen in Alumni Hall.  Thank you to all our staff and volunteers that work hard with set up, tear down and to make every weekend amazing.  If you are interested in learning about how you can get involved, I encourage you to talk with Pastor Rueben at the close of the message.

So, Covid is continuing to run its course through our community.  Even though I tested negative three times, I am positive that I was not negative.  I appreciate your patience to allow me to preach via the big screen a couple of weekends ago.

I was sick. I do not like being sick.

Do you remember about seven or eight months after the pandemic began, the viral videos of hospital parking lots being filled with vehicles flashing their lights, honking their horns, and blasting worship music? Crowds of people were lifting their hands in worship and covering the hospitals in prayer. They were singing, “Way-Maker, miracle worker, promise keeper, light in the darkness, my God that is who you are…You never stop, you never stop working…”

Parking lots were filled with people praying for the hospital staff, for health care workers, and asking God to heal those suffering with Covid and its impact on the body.

Raise your hand if you remember seeing videos like that.

For me, it reminded me of the millions of Americans who lined up to give blood the days following 9/11.  We couldn’t do much, but we wanted to help, because people were hurting.

Those actions are examples of “COMPASSION.”  When we see other people suffering, and we say…I want to help somehow, and we do something to help bring relief to the people suffering – that is COMPASSION.

In today’s passage of scripture, we find a very clear example of COMPASSION among people who believed Jesus was able to work miracles.

I will be reading from the New Living Translation, but you are welcome to follow along in whatever translation of the Bible you have.

Luke 5:17-26 (NLT2) 17  One day while Jesus was teaching, some Pharisees and teachers of religious law were sitting nearby. (It seemed that these men showed up from every village in all Galilee and Judea, as well as from Jerusalem.) And the Lord’s healing power was strongly with Jesus. 18  Some men came carrying a paralyzed man on a sleeping mat. They tried to take him inside to Jesus, 19  but they couldn’t reach him because of the crowd. So they went up to the roof and took off some tiles. Then they lowered the sick man on his mat down into the crowd, right in front of Jesus. 20  Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the man, “Young man, your sins are forgiven.” 21  But the Pharisees and teachers of religious law said to themselves, “Who does he think he is? That’s blasphemy! Only God can forgive sins!” 22  Jesus knew what they were thinking, so he asked them, “Why do you question this in your hearts? 23  Is it easier to say ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or ‘Stand up and walk’? 24  So I will prove to you that the Son of Man has the authority on earth to forgive sins.” Then Jesus turned to the paralyzed man and said, “Stand up, pick up your mat, and go home!” 25  And immediately, as everyone watched, the man jumped up, picked up his mat, and went home praising God. 26  Everyone was gripped with great wonder and awe, and they praised God, exclaiming, “We have seen amazing things today!” 

During this time, the religious leaders believed that if a person was suffering physical, it was because God was punishing them for their sins.

They believed that if something bad happened, 
that if something tragic happened, 
that if a person got a disease, 
was paralyzed, or just sick, 
they believed GOD was punishing that individual for their sins.

We might think that is odd – but I hear similar things today.

Sometimes we see people with a terrible diagnosis, get in a horrible accident, and think that God must be punishing them for some reason.

Can I just state how insane that is?  

SIN and DISEASE are tied together.  When the first man sinned, sickness, disease, deformities, and death entered the world.

BUT – God does not punish us with sickness and disease. Sickness and disease are something all of us will experience until we leave our physical bodies…not because of personal sin – but because of sin. Period.

And, these Religious Leaders, rather than having compassion on the hurting, had judgmental thoughts toward those who were sick.

The first lesson we learn about compassion from this text is that, as a body of Believers, we can…
LOWER THIRDS:

PARTNER TOGETHER TO HELP OTHERS FIND HEAVEN THROUGH JESUS. (V.18-19)

Some men came carrying a paralyzed man on a sleeping mat. They tried to take him inside to Jesus, but they couldn’t reach him because of the crowd. So they went up to the roof and took off some tiles. Then they lowered the sick man on his mat down into the crowd, right in front of Jesus. 
Partner together to help others find heaven through Jesus.

When we care about the people around us, we will look for opportunities to partner with others to bring them to Jesus.

If you have surrendered your life to Jesus and received Him as your Savior. 
If you believe that on the cross, Jesus paid the price for your sin, you have been forgiven for your sins, and you have reconnected to God through Jesus – 

Then

You know people who have not yet experienced a life-changing relationship with God – would want to if they knew what they were missing out on.

If you have a relationship with God, you know what I am talking about.

You have peace when you walk through troubled times. 
You experience HOPE while you walk through hopeless situations. 
You have victory even when you are defeated.

You have experienced Jesus power in your life…
rescuing you from addiction, 
fixing your broken relationships with others, 
redeeming your past. 

You know what it is like to have a GROWing relationship with your heavenly Father…and you
know through experience what friends, families and neighbors are missing out on because they have never turned their lives over to Jesus.

So – invite them to Weekend worship. Invite them to watch online. Invite them to listen to our podcast. Invite them to one of our Campuses.  

Calvary’s teams work hard to keep Calvary a place where all people feel welcome regardless of their past mistakes and sins…

If you feel uncomfortable about telling someone how to reconnect with God through Jesus – invite them to church! Invite them to Celebrate Recovery on Monday nights at 6:30. Invite them to an event or something happening at church.

The Biker ministry at our church is a great example of how we partner together. This weekend on our Campus, hundreds of bikers with their motorcycles turned up for a “Blessing of the Bikes.” 

Bikers gathering together at our church and being prayed over..

That is a great illustration of how we can partner together to point others to Heaven through Jesus. 

The second thing we can learn about Compassion is this:

LOWER THIRDS:

COMPASSIONATE FAITH OVERCOMES HICCUPS, HINDRANCES, AND HELL. (V.19-20)

but they couldn’t reach him because of the crowd. So they went up to the roof and took off some tiles. Then they lowered the sick man on his mat down into the crowd, right in front of Jesus. Seeing their faith, Jesus said to the man, “Young man, your sins are forgiven.” 


I love the determination and the perseverance that all four of those men had.  They show up carrying their friend on a stretcher and the crowd blocks them from Jesus.

They did not drop their paralyzed friend on the ground and say, “Let’s try tomorrow.” 

They didn’t give up. Through the hiccups and hindrances, the four friends were determined to get their friend to Jesus.

Even though they had to climb a ladder and rip off a chunk of the roof, they let nothing stop them until they had their friend on the ground in front of Jesus.

They CARED too much to let things like crowds, ladders, and roofs get in the way. They knew if they could get their friend to Jesus – he would be changed forever.

And he was. 

Jesus forgave the man, then told him to stand up, pick up his mat, and go home.

When he left that place, he did not need a mat. He would never need to be carried around again. The same crowd that blocked him from Jesus, now stared at him with wonder and let him pass through.  

All because his friends didn’t just believe that Jesus could heal him… it wasn’t just a head knowledge that Jesus could change his life…

they showed COMPASSION by doing everything they could to get him in front of Jesus.

You and I can do the same. 

Raise your hand if you believe Jesus is still changing lives and forgiving sins.
Raise your hand if you know a friend or family member living without Jesus.

Then, show compassionate belief and invite them to Calvary. 

Offer to pick them up (not on a stretcher, but in your car) 
Ride together.
After worship, take them to lunch or dinner.
Send them a text message right now, or after the service and invite them while you are thinking about it. 

If you are watching online, invite friends to watch with you.
Don’t just SAY you believe that Jesus can change lives. Have COMPASSIONATE faith that moves mountains and invite your friends, family, neighbors, and co-workers to church with you.

Scroll through the contacts on your phone if you can’t think of somebody to show compassion to.  

Invite your dentist, 
the person that details your car, 
your landscaper, 
your surgeon, 
your server at the restaurant, 
the people that deliver your furniture, 
the person that picks up your trash, 
the driver beside you at the traffic light at Mulberry and 95. 

We do care for others, so keep showing it and…

LOWER THIRDS:

KEEP HELPING RATHER THAN CHOOSING A “HELPLESS FAITH.” (V.25)

And immediately, as everyone watched, the man jumped up, picked up his mat, and went home praising God.
(I recognize I was carried away with words that begin with H… )
Here is what I am trying to say…
If you have been changed by Jesus – live out that change every single day.  
Don’t live like you have a helpless faith.  
Don’t live like you aren’t important. 
Don’t live like you do not matter.
You have been given life- so work to give life to others.
This man was no longer paralyzed – and Jesus did not expect for this man to keep laying there.  He told him to GET UP.  He told him to haul his cot back to his house.
God has not changed our lives for us to remain motionless, paralyzed or helpless.  
He has placed within our hearts a faith that can move mountains…I hope you believe that God can use you, that God will use you if you invite him too.
Hebrews 12:12–13 (NLT) — 12 So take a new grip with your tired hands and strengthen your weak knees. 13 Mark out a straight path for your feet so that those who are weak and lame will not fall but become strong. 
Let’s pray.


