Judging Others Sermon
Matt 7:1-5

TODAY! THIS WEEK! WELCOME MCCULLOUGH AND PARKER!

It is so good to be here at Calvary this weekend.  My family and I spent time visiting family and friends in Tennessee and Georgia.  The weather was 85 degrees, with humidity around 40%!  There was a nice chill in the mornings…  But – we are glad to be back in the heat of Havasu – because we were all bit up by chiggers, mosquitos, and gnats!

TODAY we continue in our sermon series, UPSIDE DOWN. We are walking through the longest recorded sermon of Jesus, the sermon on the mount.  We believe that IF we apply the words of Jesus to our lives, he will reshape our relationships, reshape our character, and turn our lives upside down – but we must be willing to apply his word to our lives to experience life-change.

The passage of scripture we will look at is found in Matthew 7:1-5, page 965.  If you do not have a bible, I want to encourage you to take one of the bibles underneath the seat in front of you home with you.  Read it.  Apply it and see life-change begin to unfold in your life.

TODAY, we address probably the number one sin that many people wrestle with in church life:  JUDGING OTHERS. Whether we merely think “judgmental thoughts” toward others, or whether speak words of judgement about others, many of us in this room have been guilty of the sinful attitude Jesus address in the Sermon on the Mount.  So, if the passage steps on your toes this weekend, please know that it stepped on my toes first.

Let’s read the words of Jesus:

SHOW ON SCREEN:

Matthew 7:1-5 (ESV) 1  “Judge not, that you be not judged. 2  For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. 3  Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? 4  Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when there is the log in your own eye? 5  You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye. 

First, I want to make sure we understand what JUDGING is.

SHOW ON SCREEN:
Judging is the nit-picking of things that do not matter.
Nit picking 😊 can kind of look like how my youngest daughter eats her food.  She will not eat her food if it touches something else on her plate.  All the food on her plate is going to get squished about by her teeth, smashed with her tongue, and digested by her stomach…but she won’t eat her toast if it touches her scrambled eggs.
That is nit-picking! 😊
Most of the time when we make initial judgements about other people, we judge them based on things that do not matter:
We focus on their hair style.  
Their clothing choices.  
Their speech patterns.  
Their educational level.  
Their occupation. 
Their former occupation.  
Their family.  
Their marriages.  
Their past lives.  
Whether they have too many tattoos. 
Whether they do not have enough tattoos.
Whether they smoke.
Whether they drink alcohol.
That is nit-picking.  
None of these things ultimately matter.  
You might say, “Wait – do you mean their past lives do not matter?”  
To a certain extent, I do.  
As a follower of Jesus, it is our number one responsibility to LOVE GOD and LOVE OTHERS…and it is impossible to LOVE others if you nit-pick their actions, attitudes, and their past lives.
In High School – I was a punk to some.  A jerk to some. I had long hair, bad acne, and mostly did what I wanted to.  I rarely studied for tests. I did my homework if I felt like it…I was a straight B student.
One month after I graduated HS, I gave my life to Jesus.  I began growing in my faith, reading my bible daily, and living for Him.  After roughly FOUR years, I had a desire to go to College – but I didn’t know where to start.  Even though I had been out of High School for four years, I scheduled an appointment with my HS Guidance Counselor.  I explained to her that I had given my life to Jesus right after I graduated…I was a Sunday School teacher, a youth volunteer, and I had served for one year as a church planter in Ohio…AND NOW…I needed some help getting into College.  I knew I wanted to go – but I did not have any idea where I needed to begin.
My Guidance counselor looked at me and only saw my past life.
She did not see the new life I had begun living.  
She only saw the Sophomore that came to school drunk in 1989 on moonshine and threw up everywhere.  She did not see the SS teacher.  She did not see the follower of Jesus.  
She only saw my past and politely said to me, “Joe. Some people aren’t meant to go to college…”
I don’t remember what else she said, because I tuned her out.
In that moment – I realized that some people will never let you move on from your past.  
Let me hear from you.
	•	Raise our hand if you have ever called somebody an idiot if they cut you off in traffic?
	•	By a show of hands how many of you have ever thought the man on the corner with a sign asking for money would spend it on drugs?
	•	Raise your hand if you have ever seen a child misbehaving in public and think their parent is too soft and should spank their kid?
I have been guilty of all of these.
I understand that I also need to be very careful to overcome my own deficit when it comes to judging other people because Jesus teaches in verse 2 that
SHOW ON SCREEN:
I select my own jury.  (Matt 7:1-2)
“For with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you…”
Have you ever wondered why people criticize you?
Have you ever wondered why other people give you the elevator eyes?
Have you ever wondered why people gossip about you, spread rumors about you, and speak negatively about your character?
I have.
If I nit-pick other people – other people are going to nit-pick me.  If I nit-pick people because of their appearance – I am going to be nit-picked over my appearance.  
BUT – IF I love others. If I show them grace. If I allow the same GRACE to flow to others that I hope for myself to receive – then I will receive GRACE and LOVE from others instead of JUDGEMENT.
Raise your hand if you have ever FELT judged by somebody else?
Raise your hand if that happened in a church setting?
A few of you give me a shout – how did being judged by others in a church setting make you feel?
I have been there.  I have been told to wear certain types of clothes when I preach.  I have been told to wear a tie.  A suit. I have been told to wear Jeans…or I wouldn’t fit in.
So, the very simple lesson that Jesus teaches us is found in Matthew 7:2…
SHOW ON SCREEN:
Treat others how I want to be treated.  (Matt 7:2) 
It is a very simple practical step of faith.  If we claim to be a follower of Jesus. If we have asked Jesus to forgive us for our own arrogance, our own pride, our own selfish sinful behavior, then as recipients of HIS GRACE we ought to treat all others with GRACE and KINDNESS.
It only makes sense.  We have been forgiven – we ought to give REAL forgiveness to others.  We have been shown MERCY – we ought to show REAL mercy to others.
So – what do we do with our judgmental behavior?  We need to redirect it toward ourselves.  We ought to
SHOW ON SCREEN:
Be aware and remove my own blind spot. (Matt 7:3-4)

😊I spent the last couple of weeks driving around in Atlanta Georgia.  When shifting lanes, I had to continually stretch my neck around to make sure that another driver wasn’t in my blind spot.  Our rental van did not have the “blind spot” detection system that our minivan has.  In our personal minivan, If I begin to shift lanes and a vehicle is in my blind-spot, lights on my dash blink and a noise alerts me.  THE RENTAL VAN DID NOT HAVE THAT FEATURE!  I almost ran one driver off the road and cut off another driver who waved at me with one finger as he passed. 😊

We all have BLIND SPOTS of sin in our lives.  Sin that other people can see from afar, but it is so close to us personally it is harder to see.

It could be bitterness. Resentment. Unforgiveness. An ambivalent attitude toward sin.  An unloving spirit.  A gruff and harsh tone with other people…An addiction.  A lack of self-control…

Are you aware of your blind-spot?  Are you aware of that speck that “log” in your own eye?  Listen to what Jesus said:

“Why do you see the speck that is in your brother’s eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? 4  Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when there is the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother’s eye.”

We ought to be our own harshest critic.  
Instead of JUDGING others, we ought to JUDGE ourselves.  
We ought to examine our own heart. Our own motives. Our own actions. Our own lives. 

We should never ignore SIN when it begins to take root in our lives.  We ought to turn our nit-picking onto ourselves.  On a regular basis, we ought to sit down with a copy of God’s word that we can read and understand and allow it to speak to us and change us.

We should not fear being transparent and honest before God.  Jesus has already paid the penalty for your sin.  For my sin.  God is not going to punish you for your sin – we couldn’t bear it if he did.  Rather, as a follower of Jesus God desires to continue to bring CHANGE to you.  Regardless of your age.  Regardless of your past.

See – If I am a liar and I sit down with God on a regular basis – God is going to change me from a liar to an honest person.  His character is going to RUB OFF onto me.

If I am a drunk and sit down with God’s word on a regular basis – God is going to rescue me and sober me up. His character is going to sharpen me.

If I am a thief and sit down with God’s word – he is going to change and transform me.  His Character is going to gradually make me more like HIM.

As God reveals those BLINDSPOTS in my life and I confess and remove them – THEN I can help other people who have been where I have been.  

God wants me to…

SHOW ON SCREEN:

Help others by celebrating my win. (Matt 7:5)
I love the story of the OVERCOMER.  Maybe you are the overcomer. 

I love the story of an individual who has been beaten down by sin and by life yet somehow God has given them victory.  Those stories are inspirational and motivational.  If God can work in restoring “their” life, then maybe it is not too much of a stretch that HE is able to work in my life.  

You are the inspirational story that another follower of Jesus needs to read!  That marriage that God redeemed and rescued – somebody needs to hear how you and your spouse overcame.  

That addiction that God rescued you from.  There is an addict sitting in our church that needs to hear your story of breaking free!

That cancer diagnosis? That depression? That anxiety? Somebody needs to hear about your win!

Be willing to share your win!  When you share your win, you share HOPE!  You help those who are struggling understand that they are not alone and that they too can overcome through the love of Jesus.

Consider getting involved with Celebrate Recovery.  They lean on one another in a non-judgmental way.  They celebrate wins together and they stick with one another through losses and failures.

Take out a PRAYER CARD and let us know about your story you are willing to share as a video testimony.  Whether we share it in a sermon or on Social Media, countless people can be impacted through hearing your story of how God removed the log from your eyes.  

Would you consider how God has given you that second, third and fourth chance and open your mouth and begin to speak about His Grace in your lives to help others?

Let’s Pray.



