SON OF GOD
DEALING WITH REJECTION
January 8-9, 2022
Luke 4:16-30
Page 1021

If you have your bible or your bible apps, I invite you to Luke 4.  We are continuing in our sermon series “The Son of God.”  For all of 2022 we will be preaching and teaching about life-change from the Gospel of Luke.  If you did not bring a Bible with you today, you are invited to use one of the Bibles located underneath the seats in front of you and turn to page 1021. As always, if you do not have a Bible that you can read or understand easily, please take a Bible home with you. It is our gift to you.  

If you are searching for life-change in 2022, I encourage you to read God’s Word and apply God’s word – and you will discover that God will change your life.

I hope your new year has started off strong. Teachers are back in the classroom. Kids are back in school. Kids are back in school.  Kids are back in school.

Yay for school!  I love my kids – but it is so nice that for a portion of the day – other teachers and parents are investing in our kids.  That is why we love CCA so much.  We are so grateful knowing that our kids teachers are praying for our girls and investing in them.  

Speaking of school – I remember my middle school years very well. In fact, I remember my teachers names all the way up through high school and many from college and seminary.  Not only do I remember the names of my teachers...but I remember the girl I thought I was in love with in 7th grade.

Her name was Rebecca Bumpus. We sat together for breakfast and lunch in the cafeteria.  We passed notes in the hallway.  And on occasion, when teachers weren’t looking, we even held hands. 😊

That relationship lasted for about one whole week. The reason I remember our relationship so well is because of how it was ended.

I believe our relationship began on Monday – but by Friday – Rebecca's best friend Marcine was sent to do her dirty work.  Marcine Butts (that’s right. Her last name was Butts) sat down beside me in class on Friday afternoon and told me that Rebecca was breaking up with me.

Confused. I didn’t understand why Rebecca was rejecting me.  I asked Marcine, “Why is she breaking up with me.?”  Marcine Butts replied, “Joe...you’re ugly.”

And those words of rejection lingered in my heart for years.  Anytime I was interested in asking a girl to “go with me” in middle school, high school, or go out on a date with me in college, I could always hear Marcine Butts words in my head, “Joe, you’re ugly...”

Rejection stinks!

Whether it is in relationships, whether you apply for a job, at work, in court, rejection stinks.

Help me out here. Let me know I am not alone.

If like me, you have ever experienced rejection that hurt, raise your hand. 
Raise your hand if you remember the person that rejected you.
Raise your hand if you were the person that did the rejecting. 😊 

(Get them!) 😊 

In today’s passage we are going to look at one of the moments in his life that Jesus was rejected...and learn how we can Deal with rejection we receive as followers of Jesus.  If you are a follower of Jesus.

That is – if your relationship with God has been restored because you have surrendered your life to God by trusting in Jesus as your Savior. If you believe that Jesus restored your relationship with God and has forgiven you for your sins, and you have committed to follow him...

Then most likely you have had to deal with rejection because of your faith in Jesus at some level. But maybe you have had to deal with rejection of a spouse. Maybe your husband or wife has rejected you and abandoned you. They divorced you and you did not want to divorce them. 

Maybe your adult or teen children have rejected you.  You love them. You care for them. But right now, they have rejected you.

Even if you are not yet a follower of a Jesus – I think you will discover some heathy ways that you are able to handle rejection in your life.

At this point in his life, the ministry of Jesus was just beginning. People were just beginning to talk about him. He had been baptized. He had faced 40 days of temptation and fasting in the desert. Then he returned to Galilee, filled with the power of the Holy Spirit and reports about him began to spread quickly through the region.  There was a buzz.

And as Jesus traveled, he came to the town he grew up in, Nazareth.  Initially people spoke well about him – but after he began speaking truth that was difficult for the people to process – he experienced rejection.

Let’s read together Luke 4:16-30.

Luke 4:16-30 (ESV) 16  And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read. 17  And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written, 18  “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed, 19  to proclaim the year of the Lord’s favor.” 20  And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. 21  And he began to say to them, “Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing.” 22  And all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. And they said, “Is not this Joseph’s son?” 23  And he said to them, “Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, ‘Physician, heal yourself.’ What we have heard you did at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well.” 24  And he said, “Truly, I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown. 25  But in truth, I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land, 26  and Elijah was sent to none of them but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. 27  And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha, and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian.” 28  When they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath. 29  And they rose up and drove him out of the town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff. 30  But passing through their midst, he went away.

It was no coincidence that Jesus read that particular passage from the scroll of Isaiah.  He had already been working miracles outside the city of Nazareth.  People were speaking well about him...people were beginning to follow him.

This passage of scripture prophesied or predicted the purpose of the life of Jesus.  It predicted his mission. It summed up what his life was going to be like.

After he read this passage – the people – his friends and family from his hometown – rejected him.

One of the truths I want you to understand is that:

LOWER THIRDS:

REJECTION HAPPENS TO THOSE LIVING WITH PURPOSE (v. 18-21)

If you are a person who lives with purpose – you know that rejection is going to happen.  

If you are a Real Estate agent, rejection is going to happen. 

If you are a mechanic, people aren’t always going to be satisfied, rejection is going to happen. 

If you are sale insurance, cars, and are self-employed – you know rejection is going to happen.

I love the story that Michael Jordan tried out for his high school basketball team and couldn’t make the team so they stuck him on the Junior Varsity squad.

If you are going to live with purpose – not everybody is going to like it and some people are going to reject you.

And by the way – Teachers are some of the most influential people in our community. Not only our teachers and leaders at CCA but throughout Lake Havasu School District.  They have GREAT influence over the current generation of children and teenagers.  

Yet – they experience rejection almost daily!

But - because they believe they were created for the purpose of teaching – they endure being overworked, underpaid, and often feel unappreciated – but they stay in the field because it is their PURPOSE.

If you would like to support our schools, our students, and make a difference in our community, consider becoming a full time Substitute teacher. Some of you are retired teachers. Some of you have so much knowledge, love, and wisdom to pass on.  I know that teenagers can be scary to work with. I served in student ministry for 17 years...and I always felt awkward and uncomfortable walking through a school cafeteria....

But can you imagine the ministry that our church would have if we intentionally chose to serve teachers and the community by substituting in our schools?  When a classroom does not have a substitute, teachers who are already overworked have to work harder to try to cover other classrooms.

Imagine if Calvary became known not just by Serving our schools by providing landscaping and light maintenance, and blessing the schools with breakfast once a year – but what if we also loved our community enough to allow ourselves to be rejected every day to provide relief to teachers and invest in our kids?

If you would like more information on how you can live with a purpose in the school system, go to

LOWER THIRDS:

 www.esisubs.com

If you are wondering about how people will continue to react to you if you do continue to live with purpose, look at how people reacted to Jesus.  One minute they were excited about Jesus. They were speaking well of him and marveling at the gracious words that came from his lips...

LOWER THIRDS:

PEOPLE ARE FICKLE – THEY CAN BE FOR YOU, THEN AGAINST YOU. (v. 22, 28-29)

Luke 4:22 (ESV) 22  And all spoke well of him and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth...
Luke 4:28-29 (ESV) 28  When they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath. 29  And they rose up and drove him out of the town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff.

Look, we live in a world full of sinners, and like the Apostle Paul said, I am worse than all of you. And because people are sinners. Because you and I are broken – sometimes we treat people wrong.  Sometimes we are like this group of people.

In 2014 II was voted in as the Senior Pastor of the ROC in Richmond VA.  This was a BIG DEAL in the evangelical world.  The ROC was recognized as the fastest growing church in the United States...Jonathan Falwell preached my installment service.  The Pastor Search team was giddy with excitement – whatever you need Pastor. I have your back no matter what...

Then 7 weeks later, I was fired because I had discovered that the leader of the Board of Directors had used the church as collateral and had taken out a loan of about $600,000.

I had baptized his grandson – the first 6 weeks we had baptized over 200 people...he claimed his face hurt from smiling so much.  Then – I was fired.  

Even when people say they are for you, they are not always for you if you live with purpose.

After I had surrendered my life to Jesus, was baptized, reading my bible and growing in my faith, I sat down with my grandmother to explain what had happened to me and how I had surrendered my life to Jesus.  

My Nana, the one who had taken me into her house when nobody else could, said to me, “Don’t give me that brainwashed crap.”

I am not saying to NOT trust people.  

I am saying that when people are fickle about supporting you – it hurts.  So don’t be like that!

Do you like it when people are for you, or against you?

Help me out by raising your hand:

If you prefer people being FOR you and encouraging you, raise your hand.
If you prefer people being AGAINST you and discouraging you, raise your hand.

It is always better to be like Jesus and be FOR others.  

Sadly, it is in our sinful nature to fail other people...and sometimes the same people who are for us one moment, can be against us the next moment.

That’s what happened to Jesus.  The same people who were pleased with him one moment tried to push him off a cliff and stone him the next – not because of what he did, but because of what he said.  

Because he was living with purpose...

So... what how do we deal with rejection? How do we deal with rejection when we know sometimes people will be for us and against us, because they are human sinners too?

My advice, to make those times easier mentally and spiritually is to...

LOWER THIRDS:

BE CONFIDENT IN YOUR CALLING AND IDENTITY.

If you are going to live in this world for any period of time, you will be rejected. Your ideas will be rejected.  Your presence will be rejected. Your purpose will be rejected.

If you are convinced that your calling is to sales – be confident in your calling to sales, and in your identity as a salesperson.

If you are convinced that your calling is to cook great food, be confident in your calling to cook, and in your identity as a chef.

And...if you are a follower of Jesus – your main calling and your main identity is not found in anywhere else but in Jesus.

	•	Remember, your calling is to be the salt and light of the earth.
Matthew 5:13 (NLT2) 13  “You are the salt of the earth. But what good is salt if it has lost its flavor? Can you make it salty again? It will be thrown out and trampled underfoot as worthless. 

	•	You have been chosen by God and called to bear fruit.
John 15:16 (NLT2) 16  You didn’t choose me. I chose you. I appointed you to go and produce lasting fruit, so that the Father will give you whatever you ask for, using my name.

	•	You are God’s coworker.
2 Corinthians 6:1 (NLT2) 1  As God’s partners, we beg you not to accept this marvelous gift of God’s kindness and then ignore it. 

	•	You are God’s masterpiece.
Ephesians 2:10 (NLT2) 10  For we are God’s masterpiece. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we can do the good things he planned for us long ago.

	•	You have been born from God and the evil one cannot touch you.
1 John 5:18 (NLT2) 18  We know that God’s children do not make a practice of sinning, for God’s Son holds them securely, and the evil one cannot touch them.

Jesus was confident in his calling and in his identity.  He knew what his purpose was and even when people rejected him and rejected his message – he kept on going. He kept on moving forward – because his calling compelled him and his identity strengthened him.

Let’s Pray.




